Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. A computer language that is used to communicate with computers using a set of commands.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. JDK contains the Java Runtime Environment(provides programming tools and libraries), Java(loader for applications),
javac(java compiler), and other development tools.

What is IDE?
A. IDE is an Integrated Development Environment which is an application which provides the tools for writing and
testing a software program.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans, Visual Studio Code, etc.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
1. Editing the program and saving the file with a .java extension.
2. Javac compiles the source code.
3. The Java Virtual Machine executes the byte code.

what is class?
A class is a group of objects with common properties.

What is object?
A member of a class with an identity, behavior, and state.

What is the entry point of an application?
The main method is the entry point of an application.

Why main is static?
Main method is static so that the complier can call it without instantiating the class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
The Object class is the superclass.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
path sets path for all Java tools. classpath sets path for java classes.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Abstract class can inherit another class and implement an interface.
An Interface can only inherit an interface.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
No, they cannot make an object but can reference the objects of subclasses.

what is Access Specifier?
Keywords used to regulate access to classes, methods, etc.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
object-oriented programming consists of inheritance(inheriting attributes from one class to another),
 encapsulation(restricting data access), abstraction(hiding nonessential information from end user),
 and polymorphism(message can be displayed in more than one form).

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
java package provides basic classes that are needed to design a java program. the java.lang package is the default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Application Programming Interface allows two applications to communicate.
Json, xml, http

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Java does not support multiple inheritance.

What is method overloading and when it happens?

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?

What is final, finally and finalize?

What is a constructor ?

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?

What is "this" keyword in java ?

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?

What is JVM stand for?
Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?

What version of java are you using?
17.0.1

What is JAR stand for ?
Java ARchive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
JDK is used to develop applications in Java. JVM executes byte code and provides an environment for executing it.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
JVM is a subset of JRE.

What is compile time and run time?
compile time is when programming code gets converted to binary code.
run time is when the program is running.

What is heap?
memory which is used to store global variables.

How java manage it's memory?
java uses an automatic memory management system called garbage collection.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
String-immutable,
StringBuffer-mutable, synchronized
StringBuilder-mutable, non-synchronized

What is Singleton class?
Singleton class is a class that can have one object at a time.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
serialization converts state of object into byte stream.
deserialization converts byte stream into object.

when to use transient variable in java?
transient is used during serialization if the value of a specific variable should not be saved.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
while loop tests at beginning of loop and executes if true. do while tests at end of the loop.

What is Enum?
a special class that represents a group of unchangeable variables.

What is Iterator?
an object that can be used to loop through collections.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?

Why is String Immutable in Java?
String is immutable because it is threadsafe and cannot be changed.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
process of calling one constructor from another constructor through inheritance.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
serial uses a single thread while parallel uses multiple threads for garbage collection.

What is JIT stands for?
just-in-time compiler is part of JRE which improves performance at runtime.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
No, it cannot be guaranteed if references are lost.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
heap is used throughout the application while stack is only used for methods that are currently running.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
reflection is an api which is useful for inspecting unknown classes and methods.

what is multithreading in java?
Process of executing multiple threads simultaneously.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
The capability to control access to multiple threads

What is Framework?
Framework is a body that contains pre-written codes used by java developers.

What are the testing Framework available in java?

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
testNG can run parallel tests, supports advanced annotation, has dependency tests, and can group tests.

What are the dependencies for this project?
testng, mongo, mysql, gson

what is dependency injection in java?
objects get other required objects from another class.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
static binding happens at compile time. Dynamic binding happens at runtime. Binding in general is the process of
associating a method call and a method body.










